doc: tfm: Add documentation regarding configurable build (#19562)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/security/tfm.rst

In addition, the TF-M implementation is used in all samples and applications in this SDK that support the ``*/ns`` :ref:`variant <app_boards_names>` of the boards, due to :ref:`Cortex-M Security Extensions (CMSE) <app_boards_spe_nspe>` support.

Limitations
===========

The following limitations apply to TF-M and its usage:

* Firmware Update service is not supported.
* The following crypto modules or ciphers are not supported:

  * AES output feedback (AES-OFB) mode.
  * AES cipher feedback (AES-CFB) mode.

* Isolation level 3 is not supported.

> * In Isolation level 2 or higher, the number of peripherals configured as secure in Application Root of Trust (ARoT) is limited by the number of available MPU regions.

Author: True.

TF-M defines level 1, 2 and 3 for isolation.
Nordic does not yet support level 3, but the technical limitation mentioned here would still be true on level 3 if it ever is going to be supported.

> * In Isolation level 2 or higher, the number of peripherals configured as secure in Application Root of Trust (ARoT) is limited by the number of available MPU regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In Isolation level 2 (and 3), the number of peripherals configured as secure in Application Root of Trust (ARoT) is limited by the number of available MPU regions.
```

Following are the available Kconfig options for TF-M partitions:

.. list-table:: Available TF-M Partitions
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option Name
     - Description
     - Default Value
     - Dependencies
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PLATFORM`
     - Provides platform services.
     - Enabled
     -
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_CRYPTO`
     - Provides cryptographic services.
     - Enabled
     - INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PROTECTED_STORAGE`
     - Provides secure storage services.
     - Enabled
     - PLATFORM, CRYPTO
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE`
     - Provides internal trusted storage services.
     - Enabled
     -
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INITIAL_ATTESTATION`
     - Provides initial attestation services.
     - Disabled
     - CRYPTO

Security Partition Manager backend configuration
------------------------------------------------

Security Partition Manager (SPM) backend may also be configured, depending on the isolation requirements of the application.

.. note::

>     Do not confuse _Security_ Partition Manager with _Secure_ Partition Manager, which was removed in the |NCS| v2.1.0. See :ref:`migration guide <spm_to_tfm_migration>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Do not confuse *Security* Partition Manager with *Secure* Partition Manager, which was removed in the |NCS| v2.1.0. See :ref:`migration guide <spm_to_tfm_migration>`.
```
Sorry, Markdown habits...

The code and memory size of TF-M increases when more services are enabled but also the selected hardware places limitations on how the separation of secure and non-secure is made.

TF-M is linked as a separate partition in the final binary image.
The reserved sizes of its RAM and flash partitions are configured by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` options.
These configuration options allow you to specify the size allocated for the TF-M partition in the final binary image.
Default partition sizes vary between device families and are not optimized to any specific use case.

To optimize the TF-M size, find the minimal set of features to satisfy the application needs and then minimize the allocated partition sizes while still conforming to the alignment and granularity requirements of given hardware.

.. _ug_tfm_partition_alignment_requirements:

TF-M partition alignment requirements
=====================================

TF-M requires that secure and non-secure partition addresses must be aligned to the flash region size :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE`.

> |NCS| ensures that they in fact are aligned and comply with the TF-M requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |NCS| ensures that they in fact are aligned and comply with the TF-M requirements.
```

> On nRF53 and nRF91 Series devices, TF-M uses the SPU to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the SPU flash region size.
> On nRF54L15 devices, TF-M uses the MPC to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the MPC region size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following differences apply to the device families:

* On nRF53 and nRF91 Series devices, TF-M uses the SPU to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the SPU flash region size.
* On nRF54L15 devices, TF-M uses the MPC to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the MPC region size.
```

.. list-table:: Region limits on different hardware
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Family
     - RAM granularity
     - ROM granularity
   * - nRF91 Series
     - 8 kB
     - 32 kB
   * - nRF53 Series
     - 8 kB
     - 16 kB
   * - nRF54 Series
     - 4 kB
     - 4 kB

.. figure:: /images/nrf-secure-rom-granularity.svg
   :alt: Partition alignment granularity
   :width: 80%
   :align: center

   Partition alignment granularity on different nRF devices

When the :ref:`partition_manager` is enabled, it will take into consideration the alignment requirements.
But when the static partitions are used, the user is responsible for following the alignment requirements.

.. figure:: /images/secure-flash-regions.svg
   :alt: Example of aligning partitions with flash regions
   :width: 80%
   :align: center

   Example of aligning partitions with flash regions

> If you are experiencing any partition alignment issues when using the Partition Manager, check the :ref:`known_issues` page on the main branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
     If you are experiencing any partition alignment issues when using the Partition Manager, check the :ref:`known_issues` page on the main branch.
```

You need to align the ``tfm_nonsecure``, ``tfm_storage``, and ``nonsecure_storage`` partitions with the TrustZone flash region size.
Both the partition start address and the partition size need to be aligned with the flash region size :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE`.

> Note that the ``tfm_nonsecure`` partition is placed after the ``tfm_secure`` partition, thus the end address of the ``tfm_secure`` partition is the same as the start address of the ``tfm_nonsecure`` partition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
     The ``tfm_nonsecure`` partition is placed after the ``tfm_secure`` partition, thus the end address of the ``tfm_secure`` partition is the same as the start address of the ``tfm_nonsecure`` partition.
```
Also add the following line to this note. GitHub won't let me do it.

The secure services supported by this minimal version allow for generating random numbers, and the platform services.

> Minimal version is enabled by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PROFILE_TYPE_MINIMAL` Kconfig option and is set by default on nRF53 and nRF91 series devices.
> On mimimal build, the configurability of TF-M is severely limited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimal version is set with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PROFILE_TYPE_MINIMAL` Kconfig option, which is enabled by default on the nRF53 Series and nRF91 Series devices.
With the minimal build, the configuration of TF-M is severely limited.
```

Hence, it is not possible to modify the TF-M minimal configuration to create your own variant of the minimal configuration.
Instead, the default configuration must be used as a starting point.

.. _tfm_configurable_build:

Configurable build
==================

The configurable build is the full TF-M implementation that lets you configure all of its features.

> It has the constraints of the minimal build disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It does not come with the constraints of the minimal build.
```

------------------------------------------------

Security Partition Manager (SPM) backend may also be configured, depending on the isolation requirements of the application.

.. note::
    Do not confuse *Security* Partition Manager with *Secure* Partition Manager, which was removed in the |NCS| v2.1.0. See :ref:`migration guide <spm_to_tfm_migration>`.

.. list-table:: SPM backends
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
     - Allowed isolation levels
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SFN`
     - With SFN the Secure Partition is made up of a collection of callback functions which implement secure services.
     - Level 1
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_IPC`
     - With IPC each Secure Partition processes signals in any order, and can defer responding to a message while continuing to process other signals.
     - Levels 1, 2 and 3

To control the number of logging messages, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_LOG_LEVEL` Kconfig option.
To disable logging, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_LOG_LEVEL_SILENCE` option.

The size of TF-M partitions is affected by multiple configuration options and hardware-related options.

> The code and memory size of TF-M increases when more services are enabled but also the selected hardware places limitations on how the separation of secure and non-secure is made.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code and memory size of TF-M increases when more services are enabled, but the selected hardware also places limitations on how the separation of secure and non-secure is made.
```

TF-M is linked as a separate partition in the final binary image.
The reserved sizes of its RAM and flash partitions are configured by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` options.
These configuration options allow you to specify the size allocated for the TF-M partition in the final binary image.
Default partition sizes vary between device families and are not optimized to any specific use case.

To optimize the TF-M size, find the minimal set of features to satisfy the application needs and then minimize the allocated partition sizes while still conforming to the alignment and granularity requirements of given hardware.

.. _ug_tfm_partition_alignment_requirements:

TF-M partition alignment requirements
=====================================

TF-M requires that secure and non-secure partition addresses must be aligned to the flash region size :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE`.
The |NCS| ensures that they in fact are aligned and comply with the TF-M requirements.

The following differences apply to the device families:

> * On nRF53 and nRF91 Series devices, TF-M uses the SPU to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the SPU flash region size.
> * On nRF54L15 devices, TF-M uses the MPC to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the MPC region size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* On nRF53 and nRF91 Series devices, TF-M uses the SPU to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` Kconfig option is set to the SPU flash region size.
* On nRF54L15 devices, TF-M uses the MPC to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` option is set to the MPC region size.
```

     - Provides initial attestation services.
     - Disabled
     - CRYPTO

Security Partition Manager (SPM) backend may also be configured, depending on the isolation requirements of the application.

.. list-table:: SPM backends
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
     - Allowed isolation levels
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SFN`
     - With SFN the Secure Partition is made up of a collection of callback functions which implement secure services.
     - Level 1
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_IPC`
     - With IPC each Secure Partition processes signals in any order, and can defer responding to a message while continuing to process other signals.
     - Levels 1, 2 and 3

Amount of logging messages can be controlled by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_LOG_LEVEL` option or by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_LOG_LEVEL_SILENCE` option to disable logging.

Size of TF-M partitions are affected by multiple configuration option and hardware related options.
Code and memory size of TF-M increases as more services are enabled but also selected hardware places limitations on how separation of secure and non-secure are made.

> TF-M is linked as a separate partition in the final binary image. The reserved sizes of its RAM and Flash partitions are configured by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` options.
> These configuration option allows you to specify the size allocated for the TF-M partition in the final binary image. Default partition sizes vary between device families and are not optimized to any specific use case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TF-M is linked as a separate partition in the final binary image.
The reserved sizes of its RAM and Flash partitions are configured by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` options.
These configuration options allow you to specify the size allocated for the TF-M partition in the final binary image. Default partition sizes vary between device families and are not optimized to any specific use case.
```

> Process to optimize the TF-M size is to first find the minimal set of features to satisfy the application needs and then minimize the allocated partition sizes while still conforming to the alignment and granularity requirements of given hardware.
> See next section for more information about the alignment requirements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To optimize the TF-M size, find the minimal set of features to satisfy the application needs and then minimize the allocated partition sizes while still conforming to the alignment and granularity requirements of given hardware.
```

On nRF54L15 devices, TF-M uses the MPC to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the MPC region size.

.. list-table:: Region limits on different hardware
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Family
     - RAM granularity
     - ROM granularity
   * - nRF91 Series
     - 8 kB
     - 32 kB
   * - nRF53 Series
     - 8 kB
     - 16 kB
   * - nRF54 Series
     - 4 kB
     - 4 kB

.. figure:: /images/nrf-secure-rom-granularity.svg
   :alt: Partition alignment granularity
   :width: 80%
   :align: center

   Partition alignment granularity on different nRF devices.

When the :ref:`partition_manager` is enabled, it will take into consideration the alignment requirements.
But when the static partitions are used, the user is responsible for following the alignment requirements.

.. figure:: /images/secure-flash-regions.svg
   :alt: Example of aligning partitions with flash regions
   :width: 80%
   :align: center

   Example of aligning partitions with flash regions.

If you are experiencing any partition alignment issues when using the Partition Manager, check the :ref:`known_issues` page on the main branch.

> The partitions which need to be aligned with the TrustZone flash region size are partitions ``tfm_nonsecure``, ``tfm_storage`` and ``nonsecure_storage``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You need to align the ``tfm_nonsecure``, ``tfm_storage``, and ``nonsecure_storage`` partitions with the TrustZone flash region size.
```

The secure services supported by this minimal version allow for generating random numbers, and the platform services.

> The minimal version of TF-M is disabled by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PROFILE_TYPE_NOT_SET` option or one of the other build profiles.

Reviewer: No edit applied. Comment still pending. Please make it clear what is needed to enable and disable the minimal build _in the Minimal build section_. Just as you did in the Configurable build section.

> The minimal version of TF-M is disabled by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PROFILE_TYPE_NOT_SET` option or one of the other build profiles.

Author: I rewrote the section a bit. Please check if this is clear now?

Each service can be a separate partition, or multiple related services might be grouped into a single partition.
The partition provides the execution environment for the service, handling secure function calls and ensuring that the service's code and data are protected from unauthorized access.

Following are the available Kconfig options for TF-M partitions:

.. list-table:: Available TF-M Partitions
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option Name
     - Description
     - Default Value
     - Dependencies
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PLATFORM`
     - Provides platform services.
     - Enabled
     -
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_CRYPTO`
     - Provides cryptographic services.
     - Enabled
     - INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PROTECTED_STORAGE`
     - Provides secure storage services.
     - Enabled
     - PLATFORM, CRYPTO
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE`
     - Provides internal trusted storage services.
     - Enabled
     -
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INITIAL_ATTESTATION`
     - Provides initial attestation services.
     - Disabled
     - CRYPTO

> Security Partition Manager (SPM) backend may also be configured, depending on the isolation requirements of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security Partition Manager (SPM) backend may also be configured, depending on the isolation requirements of the application.

.. note::
    Do not confuse _Security_ Partition Manager with _Secure_ Partition Manager, which was removed in the |NCS| v2.1.0. See :ref:`migration guide <spm_to_tfm_migration>`.
```

Author: Sorry, but this is incorrect.

We have ended up into a conflicting acronyms. Secure Partition Manager as used by Nordic in previous SDK versions has nothing to do with [Secure Partition Manager](https://tf-m-user-guide.trustedfirmware.org/design_docs/services/secure_partition_manager.html) as defined by TF-M. Both are SPM, and they do not mean anything similar.

> Security Partition Manager (SPM) backend may also be configured, depending on the isolation requirements of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security Partition Manager backend configuration
------------------------------------------------

Security Partition Manager (SPM) backend may also be configured, depending on the isolation requirements of the application.
```

.. list-table:: SPM backends
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Option
     - Description
     - Allowed isolation levels
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SFN`
     - With SFN the Secure Partition is made up of a collection of callback functions which implement secure services.
     - Level 1
   * - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_IPC`
     - With IPC each Secure Partition processes signals in any order, and can defer responding to a message while continuing to process other signals.
     - Levels 1, 2 and 3

To control the number of logging messages, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_LOG_LEVEL` Kconfig option.
To disable logging, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_LOG_LEVEL_SILENCE` option.

The size of TF-M partitions is affected by multiple configuration options and hardware-related options.
The code and memory size of TF-M increases when more services are enabled but also the selected hardware places limitations on how the separation of secure and non-secure is made.

TF-M is linked as a separate partition in the final binary image.

> The reserved sizes of its RAM and Flash partitions are configured by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reserved sizes of its RAM and flash partitions are configured by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` options.
```

> These configuration options allow you to specify the size allocated for the TF-M partition in the final binary image. Default partition sizes vary between device families and are not optimized to any specific use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These configuration options allow you to specify the size allocated for the TF-M partition in the final binary image.
Default partition sizes vary between device families and are not optimized to any specific use case.
```

.. _ug_tfm_partition_alignment_requirements:

TF-M partition alignment requirements
=====================================

TF-M requires that secure and non-secure partition addresses must be aligned to the flash region size :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE`.
|NCS| ensures that they in fact are aligned and comply with the TF-M requirements.

On nRF53 and nRF91 Series devices, TF-M uses the SPU to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the SPU flash region size.
On nRF54L15 devices, TF-M uses the MPC to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the MPC region size.

.. list-table:: Region limits on different hardware
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Family
     - RAM granularity
     - ROM granularity
   * - nRF91 Series
     - 8 kB
     - 32 kB
   * - nRF53 Series
     - 8 kB
     - 16 kB
   * - nRF54 Series
     - 4 kB
     - 4 kB

.. figure:: /images/nrf-secure-rom-granularity.svg
   :alt: Partition alignment granularity
   :width: 80%
   :align: center

>    Partition alignment granularity on different nRF devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Partition alignment granularity on different nRF devices
```

When the :ref:`partition_manager` is enabled, it will take into consideration the alignment requirements.
But when the static partitions are used, the user is responsible for following the alignment requirements.

.. figure:: /images/secure-flash-regions.svg
   :alt: Example of aligning partitions with flash regions
   :width: 80%
   :align: center

>    Example of aligning partitions with flash regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Example of aligning partitions with flash regions
```

The secure services supported by this minimal version allow for generating random numbers, and the platform services.

When :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PROFILE_TYPE_MINIMAL` is set, the configurability of TF-M is severely limited.
Hence, it is not possible to modify the TF-M minimal configuration to create your own variant of the minimal configuration.
Instead, the default configuration must be used as a starting point.

.. _tfm_configurable_build:

Configurable build
==================

The minimal version of TF-M is disabled by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PROFILE_TYPE_NOT_SET` option or one of the other build profiles.

> For description of the build profiles, see Trusted Firmware M documentation regarding :ref:`tf-m_profiles`.

Reviewer 4: We are not really supporting ARoT-less (no support for TFM_PARTITION_FIRMWARE_UPDATE) or Large (No support for isolation level 3) profiles.

TF-M partition alignment requirements
=====================================

TF-M requires that secure and non-secure partition addresses must be aligned to the flash region size :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE`.
|NCS| ensures that they in fact are aligned and comply with the TF-M requirements.

On nRF53 and nRF91 Series devices, TF-M uses the SPU to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the SPU flash region size.
On nRF54L15 devices, TF-M uses the MPC to enforce the security policy between the partitions, so the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_TRUSTZONE_FLASH_REGION_SIZE` is set to the MPC region size.

.. list-table:: Region limits on different hardware
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Family
     - RAM granularity
     - ROM granularity
   * - nRF91 Series
     - 8 kB
     - 32 kB
   * - nRF53 Series
     - 8 kB
     - 16 kB
   * - nRF54 Series
     - 4 kB
     - 4 kB

.. figure:: /images/nrf-secure-rom-granularity.svg
   :alt: Partition alignment granularity
   :width: 80%
   :align: center

   Partition alignment granularity on different nRF devices.

> When the :ref:`partition_manager` is enabled, it will take into consideration the alignment requirements.

Reviewer 4: Partition manager likely warrants its own chapter in here. I would like to at least give the flow of working with partition manager in here:

1. Minimize your partitions
2. Copy the partitions.yaml from build directory as static partitions.yaml.
3. Modify static partitions.yaml (if necessary) (PS and ITS storage can be set more efficiently, reserve enough space for future updates).

But when the static partitions are used, the user is responsible for following the alignment requirements.

.. figure:: /images/secure-flash-regions.svg
   :alt: Example of aligning partitions with flash regions
   :width: 80%
   :align: center

   Example of aligning partitions with flash regions.

If you are experiencing any partition alignment issues when using the Partition Manager, check the :ref:`known_issues` page on the main branch.

> The partitions which need to be aligned with the TrustZone flash region size are partitions ``tfm_nonsecure`` and ``nonsecure_storage``.

Reviewer 4: tfm_storage also needs to be aligned with this, if it is set after non-secure partition.

      address: 0x8000
      size: 0x4000

Analyzing ``tfm_secure`` partition size
=======================================

> The size of the ``tfm_secure`` partition can be analyzed from the build output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can analyze the size of the ``tfm_secure`` partition from the build output:
```

  .. code-block:: console

     [71/75] Linking C executable bin/tfm_s.axf
     Memory region   Used Size  Region Size  %age Used
        FLASH:       31972 B       256 KB     12.20%
        RAM:         4804 B        88 KB      5.33%

> The example above shows that the ``tfm_secure`` partition :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` is set to 256 kB and the TF-M binary uses 32 kB of the available space.
> Similarly the ``tfm_secure`` partition :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` is set to 88 kB and the TF-M binary uses 5 kB of the available space.
> This information can be used to optimize the size of the TF-M, as long as it is within the alignment requirements explained in the previous section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The example shows that the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` Kconfig option for the ``tfm_secure`` partition is set to 256 kB and the TF-M binary uses 32 kB of the available space.
Similarly the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` option for the ``tfm_secure`` partition  is set to 88 kB and the TF-M binary uses 5 kB of the available space.
You can use this information to optimize the size of the TF-M, as long as it is within the alignment requirements explained in the previous section.
```

Tools for analyzing the ``tfm_secure`` partition size
-----------------------------------------------------

> TF-M build system provides ``tfm_ram_report`` and ``tfm_rom_report`` targets for analyzing the memory usage of the TF-M partitions inside ``tfm_secure`` partition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The TF-M build system provides the ``tfm_ram_report`` and ``tfm_rom_report`` targets for analyzing the memory usage of the TF-M partitions inside the ``tfm_secure`` partition.
```

> With |NCS|, the following commands can be used to generate the reports:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the |NCS|, you can use the following commands generate the reports:
```

>   .. code-block:: console
> 
>     west build -p -b nrf9151dk/nrf9151/ns samples/tfm/tfm_hello_world
>     cd build/tfm_hello_world
>     ninja tfm_ram_report
>     ninja tfm_rom_report

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: console

    west build -p -b nrf9151dk/nrf9151/ns samples/tfm/tfm_hello_world
    cd build/tfm_hello_world
    ninja tfm_ram_report
    ninja tfm_rom_report
```

> Reports can be used to analyze the memory usage of the different TF-M partitions and how changing the Kconfig options affects the memory usage.
> For more information about the ``tfm_ram_report`` and ``tfm_rom_report`` targets, refer to the :ref:`tfm_build_system` documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the reports analyze the memory usage of the different TF-M partitions and see how changing the Kconfig options affects the memory usage.
For more information about the ``tfm_ram_report`` and ``tfm_rom_report`` targets, refer to the :ref:`tfm_build_system` documentation.
```

TF-M Partitions
===============

> 

Reviewer 3: Have some introductory text after a title. It is not a good practice to have subsequent titles without text in between.

> CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PLATFORM
> -----------------------------

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Platform partition
------------------
```

> Platform partition provides platform-specific services to other TF-M partitions and to non-secure application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable platform partition, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PLATFORM` Kconfig option.
It provides platform-specific services to other TF-M partitions and to a non-secure application.
```

For the non-secure application, setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_ALLOW_NON_SECURE_FAULT_HANDLING` Kconfig option enables more detailed error descriptions of faults from the non-secure application with the Zephyr fault handler.

Platform partition also exposes the following |NCS| specific APIs for the non-secure application:

  .. code-block:: c

    /* Search for the fw_info structure in firmware image located at address. */
    int tfm_platform_firmware_info(uint32_t fw_address, struct fw_info *info);

    /* Check if S0 is the active B1 slot. */
    int tfm_platform_s0_active(uint32_t s0_address, uint32_t s1_address, bool *s0_active);

> See :ref:`lib_tfm_ioctl_api`: for more information about what APIs are available for the non-secure application.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See :ref:`lib_tfm_ioctl_api`: for more information about APIs available for the non-secure application.
```

For more information about the general features of the TF-M Platform partition, see `TF-M Platform`_.

> CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE
> ---------------------------------------------

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Internal Trusted Storage partition
----------------------------------
```

> Internal Trusted Storage (ITS) partition implements the PSA Internal Trusted Storage APIs (`PSA Certified Secure Storage API 1.0`_) to achieve confidentiality, authenticity and encryption in rest (optional).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable Internal Trusted Storage (ITS) partition, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE` Kconfig option.
It implements the PSA Internal Trusted Storage APIs (`PSA Certified Secure Storage API 1.0`_) to achieve confidentiality, authenticity and encryption in rest (optional).
```
in rest?

> ITS is meant to be used by the other TF-M partitions. It must not be accessed directly by the non-secure application, instead the :ref:`tfm_partition_ps` should be used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ITS is meant to be used by the other TF-M partitions.
It must not be accessed directly by the non-secure application.
Instead, use the :ref:`tfm_partition_ps`.
```

For more information about the general features of the TF-M ITS service, see `TF-M ITS`_.

.. _tfm_encrypted_its:

Encrypted ITS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To enable TF-M ITS encryption, use the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_ITS_ENCRYPTED`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable TF-M ITS encryption, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_ITS_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option.
```

The ITS encryption is transparent to the user as long as the Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK) is populated before use.

> On Nordic Semiconductor devices, the hardware-accelerated AEAD scheme ChaChaPoly1305 is used with a 256 bits key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On Nordic Semiconductor devices, the hardware-accelerated AEAD scheme ChaChaPoly1305 is used with a 256-bit key.
```

This key is derived with a key derivation function (KDF) based on NIST SP 800-108 CMAC.
The input key of the KDF is the MKEK, a symmetric key stored in the Key Management Unit (KMU) of Nordic Semiconductor devices.

> The MKEK is protected by the KMU peripheral and its key material cannot be read by software. It can only be used by reference.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The MKEK is protected by the KMU peripheral and its key material cannot be read by the software.
It can only be used by reference.
```

The file ID is used as a derivation label for the KDF.
This means that each file ID uses a different AEAD key.
As long as each file has a unique file ID, the key used for encryption and authentication is unique.

To strengthen data integrity, the metadata of the ITS file (creation flags/size) is used as authenticated data in the encryption process.

> The nonce for the AEAD operation is generated by concatenating a random 8-byte seed and an increasing 4-byte counter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The nonce for the AEAD operation is generated by concatenating a random 8-byte seed and an increasing the 4-byte counter.
```

The random seed is generated once in the boot process and stays the same until reset.

.. _tfm_partition_its_sizing:

Sizing the Internal Trusted Storage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The RAM and Flash usage of the ITS partition are included in the ``tfm_secure`` partition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The RAM and flash usage of the ITS partition are included in the ``tfm_secure`` partition.
```

The storage itself is a separate ``tfm_its`` partition.

When using the Partition Manager, the size of the ``tfm_its`` is configured by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE` Kconfig option.

> The resulting partition is visible in ``partitions.yml`` in the build directory:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The resulting partition is visible in the :file:`partitions.yml` file in the build directory:
```

.. code-block:: console

    EMPTY_2:
      address: 0xea000
      end_address: 0xf0000
      placement:
        after:
        - tfm_its
      region: flash_primary
      size: 0x6000
    tfm_its:
      address: 0xe8000
      end_address: 0xea000
      inside:
      - tfm_storage
      placement:
        align:
          start: 0x8000
        before:
        - tfm_otp_nv_counters
      region: flash_primary
      size: 0x2000

The Partition Manager can only align the start address of the ``tfm_its`` partition with the flash region size (see :ref:`ug_tfm_partition_alignment_requirements`).
If the size of the ``tfm_its`` does not equal the flash region size, the Partition Manager allocates an additional empty partition to fill the gap.

> See the :ref:`tfm_ps_static_partition` for an example on how to optimize by manually configuring the size of the ``tfm_its`` partition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See the :ref:`tfm_ps_static_partition` for an example on how to optimize the size of the ``tfm_its`` partition by manual configuration.
```

.. _tfm_partition_crypto:

CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_CRYPTO
---------------------------

Crypto partition implements the PSA Crypto APIs (`PSA Certified Crypto API`_). It provides cryptographic services to other TF-M partitions and to the non-secure application.

Partition can be directly configured by using the ``CONFIG_TFM_CRYPTO_*`` Kconfig options found in file :file:`zephyr/modules/trusted-firmware-m/Kconfig.tfm.crypto_modules`.
However, it is recommended to use the ``CONFIG_PSA_WANT_*`` Kconfig options to enable the required algorithms and key types. These will enable the required ``CONFIG_TFM_CRYPTO_*`` Kconfig options.

TF-M utilizes :ref:`hardware unique keys <lib_hw_unique_key>` when the PSA Crypto key derivation APIs are used, and ``psa_key_derivation_setup`` is called with the algorithm ``TFM_CRYPTO_ALG_HUK_DERIVATION``.

For more information about the general features of the Crypto partition, see `TF-M Crypto`_.

.. _tfm_partition_ps:

CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PROTECTED_STORAGE
--------------------------------------

Protect Storage (PS) partition implements the PSA Protected Storage APIs (`PSA Certified Secure Storage API 1.0`_).

> PS partition utilizes ITS partition to achieve confidentiality and authenticity. In addition, PS provides encryption in rest, authentication and rollback protection.

Author: This refers to encryption of data at rest.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_at_rest#Encryption

A fancy way of saying that it encrypts the stored data.

To move the device from the **PRoT Provisioning** state to the **Secured** state, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_NRF_PROVISIONING` Kconfig option for your application.
In the first boot, TF-M will ensure that the keys are stored in the Key Management Unit (KMU) and move the device to the **Secured** state.
The :ref:`tfm_psa_template` sample shows how to achieve this.

.. _ug_tfm_manual_VCOM_connection:

Logging
*******

TF-M employs two UART interfaces for logging: one for the secure part (MCUboot and TF-M), and one for the non-secure application.
By default, the logs arrive on different COM ports on the host PC.
See the :ref:`ug_tfm_manual_VCOM_connection` for more details.

Alternatively, you can configure the TF-M to connect to the same UART as the application by using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SECURE_UART0` Kconfig option.
Setting this Kconfig option makes TF-M logs visible on the application's VCOM, without manual connection.

The UART instance used by the application is ``0`` by default, and the TF-M UART instance is ``1``.

> By using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SECURE_UART0`. the TF-M UART instance becomes the same as that of the application's.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To change the TF-M UART instance to the same as that of the application's, use the  :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SECURE_UART0` Kconfig option.
```

.. note::

  When the TF-M and application use the same UART, the TF-M will disable logging after it has booted and it will only re-enable it again to log a fatal error.

Manual connection to Virtual COM ports on the nRF5340 DK
=========================================================

By default, the nRF5340 DK v1.0.0 requires that you connect specific wires on the kit to receive secure logs on the host PC.
Specifically, wire the pins **P0.25** and **P0.26** of the **P2** connector to **RxD** and **TxD** of the **P24** connector respectively.
See :ref:`logging_cpunet` on the Working with nRF5340 DK page for more information.

> On the nRF5340 DK v2.0.0, there are only two virtual COM ports available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the nRF5340 DK v2.0.0, only two virtual COM ports are available.
```

By default, one of the ports is used by the non-secure UART0 peripheral from the application and the other by the UART1 peripheral from the network core.

There are several options to get UART output from the secure TF-M:

* Disable the output for the network core and change the pins used by TF-M.

>   The network core will usually have an |NCS| child image.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The network core usually has a child image.
```

>   To configure a child image, see Configuration of the child image section described in :ref:`ug_nrf5340_multi_image`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  For instructions on how to configure a child image, see :ref:`ug_nrf5340_multi_image`.
```

  To configure logging in an |NCS| image, see :ref:`ug_logging`.

>   To change the pins used by TF-M, the RXD (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_UART1_RXD_PIN`) and TXD (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_UART1_TXD_PIN`) Kconfig options in the application image can be set to **P1.00** (32) and **P1.01** (33).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  To change the pins used by TF-M, set the RXD (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_UART1_RXD_PIN`) and TXD (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_UART1_TXD_PIN`) Kconfig options in the application image to **P1.00** (32) and **P1.01** (33).
```

> * The secure and non-secure UART peripherals can be wired to the same pins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You can wire the secure and non-secure UART peripherals to the same pins.
```

  Specifically, physically wire together the pins **P0.25** and **P0.26** to **P0.20** and **P0.22**, respectively.

> * If the non-secure application, network core and TF-M outputs are all needed simultaneously, additional UART <-> USB hardware is needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If the non-secure application, network core, and TF-M outputs are all needed simultaneously, additional UART <-> USB hardware is needed.
```

>   A second nRF DK can be used if available.
>   Pin **P0.25** needs to be wired to the TXD pin, and **P0.26** to the RXD pin of the external hardware.
>   These pins will provide the secure TF-M output, while the two native COM ports of the DK will be used for the non-secure application and the network core output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  You can use a second DK if available.
  Connect the **P0.25** pin to the TXD pin, and **P0.26** to the RXD pin of the external hardware.
  These pins provide the secure TF-M output, while the two native COM ports of the DK are used for the non-secure application and the network core output.
```

      address: 0x8000
      size: 0x4000

> Analyzing TF-M partition size

Reviewer 4: Some things that are missing:
-  ITS + PS partition size 
-  tfm_ram_report, tfm_rom_report

      address: 0x8000
      size: 0x4000

Analyzing ``tfm_secure`` partition size
=======================================

You can analyze the size of the ``tfm_secure`` partition from the build output:

  .. code-block:: console

     [71/75] Linking C executable bin/tfm_s.axf
     Memory region   Used Size  Region Size  %age Used
        FLASH:       31972 B       256 KB     12.20%
        RAM:         4804 B        88 KB      5.33%

The example shows that the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` Kconfig option for the ``tfm_secure`` partition is set to 256 kB and the TF-M binary uses 32 kB of the available space.
Similarly the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` option for the ``tfm_secure`` partition  is set to 88 kB and the TF-M binary uses 5 kB of the available space.
You can use this information to optimize the size of the TF-M, as long as it is within the alignment requirements explained in the previous section.

Tools for analyzing the ``tfm_secure`` partition size
-----------------------------------------------------

> The TF-M build system provides the ``tfm_ram_report`` and ``tfm_rom_report`` targets for analyzing the memory usage of the TF-M partitions inside the ``tfm_secure`` partition.
> 
> In the |NCS|, you can use the following commands to generate the reports:
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>     west build -p -b nrf9151dk/nrf9151/ns samples/tfm/tfm_hello_world
>     cd build/tfm_hello_world
>     ninja tfm_ram_report
>     ninja tfm_rom_report
> 
> You can use the reports to analyze the memory usage of the different TF-M partitions and see how changing the Kconfig options affects the memory usage.
> For more information about the ``tfm_ram_report`` and ``tfm_rom_report`` targets, refer to the :ref:`tfm_build_system` documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TF-M build system is compatible with Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:footprint_tools` tools that let you generate RAM and ROM usage reports.
You can use the reports to analyze the memory usage of the different TF-M partitions and see how changing the Kconfig options affects the memory usage.

Depending on your development environment, you can generate memory reports for TF-M in the following ways:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code
   
      You can use the the `Memory report`_ feature in the |nRFVSC| to check the size and percentage of memory that each symbol uses on your device for RAM, ROM, and partitions (when applicable).
   
   .. group-tab:: Command line
   
       You can use the ``tfm_ram_report`` and ``tfm_rom_report`` targets for analyzing the memory usage of the TF-M partitions inside the ``tfm_secure`` partition.
       For example:
       
       .. code-block:: console
         
          west build -p -b nrf9151dk/nrf9151/ns samples/tfm/tfm_hello_world
          cd build/tfm_hello_world
          ninja tfm_ram_report
          ninja tfm_rom_report

For more information about the ``tfm_ram_report`` and ``tfm_rom_report`` targets, refer to the :ref:`tfm_build_system` documentation.
```
Please also add a subsection under test_and_optimize/optimizing/memory.rst.

Reviewer: Updated the suggested edit as per check of the `tfm_ram_report` functionality.

TF-M Partitions
===============

> As explained in the :ref:`tfm_configurable_build`, TF-M is divided into partitions that can be enabled or disabled based on the application requirements.

Author: TF-M is always consisting of partitions. That is the architecture of the firmware.

When using the "minimal" build, we just lose the ability to choose which one we use.

Platform partition
------------------

To enable platform partition, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PLATFORM` Kconfig option.
It provides platform-specific services to other TF-M partitions and to a non-secure application.

For the non-secure application, setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_ALLOW_NON_SECURE_FAULT_HANDLING` Kconfig option enables more detailed error descriptions of faults from the non-secure application with the Zephyr fault handler.

Platform partition also exposes the following |NCS| specific APIs for the non-secure application:

  .. code-block:: c

    /* Search for the fw_info structure in firmware image located at address. */
    int tfm_platform_firmware_info(uint32_t fw_address, struct fw_info *info);

    /* Check if S0 is the active B1 slot. */
    int tfm_platform_s0_active(uint32_t s0_address, uint32_t s1_address, bool *s0_active);

See :ref:`lib_tfm_ioctl_api` for more information about APIs available for the non-secure application.

For more information about the general features of the TF-M Platform partition, see `TF-M Platform`_.

Internal Trusted Storage partition
----------------------------------

> To enable the Internal Trusted Storage (ITS) partition, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE` Kconfig option.
> It implements the PSA Internal Trusted Storage APIs (`PSA Certified Secure Storage API 1.0`_) to achieve confidentiality, authenticity and encryption in rest (optional).
> ITS is meant to be used by the other TF-M partitions.
> It must not be accessed directly by the non-secure application.
> Instead, use the :ref:`tfm_partition_ps`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Internal Trusted Storage (ITS) partition implements the PSA Internal Trusted Storage APIs (`PSA Certified Secure Storage API 1.0`_) to achieve confidentiality, authenticity and encryption in rest (optional).

To enable the ITS partition, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE` Kconfig option.

ITS is meant to be used by other TF-M partitions.
It must not be accessed directly by user application :ref:`placed in the Non-Secure Processing Environment <app_boards_spe_nspe_cpuapp_ns>`.
If you want the user application to access the contents of the partition, use the :ref:`tfm_partition_ps`.
```
Same doubt here about `non-secure application`. My edit assumes we're talking about `*/ns` variant.
Also, not clear to me what you mean by `instead`, so I went for the gut feeling and proposed an edit.

For more information about the general features of the TF-M ITS service, see `TF-M ITS`_.

.. _tfm_encrypted_its:

Encrypted ITS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To enable TF-M ITS encryption, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_ITS_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option.
> The ITS encryption is transparent to the user as long as the Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK) is populated before use.

Reviewer: We need a brief definition of what the TF-M ITS encryption is before these lines. One cannot enable something that one doesn't know...
```suggestion
TF-M ITS encryption is a data protection mechanism in Internal Trusted Storage. It provides transparent encryption using a Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK) stored in hardware, with unique encryption keys derived for each file.

To enable TF-M ITS encryption, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_ITS_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option.
```

This key is derived with a key derivation function (KDF) based on NIST SP 800-108 CMAC.
The input key of the KDF is the MKEK, a symmetric key stored in the Key Management Unit (KMU) of Nordic Semiconductor devices.
The MKEK is protected by the KMU peripheral and its key material cannot be read by the software.
It can only be used by reference.

The file ID is used as a derivation label for the KDF.
This means that each file ID uses a different AEAD key.
As long as each file has a unique file ID, the key used for encryption and authentication is unique.

To strengthen data integrity, the metadata of the ITS file (creation flags/size) is used as authenticated data in the encryption process.

The nonce for the AEAD operation is generated by concatenating a random 8-byte seed and a increasing 4-byte counter.
The random seed is generated once in the boot process and stays the same until reset.

.. _tfm_partition_its_sizing:

Sizing the Internal Trusted Storage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The RAM and flash usage of the ITS partition are included in the ``tfm_secure`` partition.
The storage itself is a separate ``tfm_its`` partition.

> When using the Partition Manager, you can configure the size of the ``tfm_its`` with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: Edit not applied.

> When using the Partition Manager, you can configure the size of the ``tfm_its`` with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_INTERNAL_TRUSTED_STORAGE` Kconfig option.

Author: Fixed.

It implements the PSA Crypto APIs (`PSA Certified Crypto API`_) and provides cryptographic services to other TF-M partitions and to the non-secure application.

You can configure the partition directly using the ``CONFIG_TFM_CRYPTO_*`` Kconfig options found in the :file:`zephyr/modules/trusted-firmware-m/Kconfig.tfm.crypto_modules` file.
However, it is recommended to use the ``CONFIG_PSA_WANT_*`` Kconfig options to enable the required algorithms and key types.
These will enable the required ``CONFIG_TFM_CRYPTO_*`` Kconfig options.

TF-M utilizes :ref:`hardware unique keys <lib_hw_unique_key>` when the PSA Crypto key derivation APIs are used, and ``psa_key_derivation_setup`` is called with the algorithm ``TFM_CRYPTO_ALG_HUK_DERIVATION``.

For more information about the general features of the Crypto partition, see `TF-M Crypto`_.

.. _tfm_partition_ps:

Protect Storage partition
-------------------------

To enable Protect Storage (PS) partition, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PROTECTED_STORAGE`.

It implements the PSA Protected Storage APIs (`PSA Certified Secure Storage API 1.0`_).
PS partition uses ITS partition to achieve confidentiality and authenticity.

> In addition, PS provides encryption in rest, authentication and rollback protection.

Author: It is the later part.
Encryption of a data at rest.

Somehow a fancy way of saying that it encrypts the data that is stored in the flash.

A non-secure application should use the PS for storing sensitive data.

For more information about the general features of the TF-M PS partition, see `TF-M PS`_.

> Sizing the Protected Storage

Author: I just realized, this is getting super confused.

TF-M implements separation of its services, and calls these partitions.
Protected Storage is a service that we can enable. As it runs inside TF-M, we might call it protected storage partition.

Protected storage need a storage, which we configure here. It is called protected storage partition.

Now protected storage partition means two different thing:
* A service itself.
* Storage where data is stored by the service.

I wonder if we could drop the usage of term "partition" from all of the services that we enable from TF-M.

> Sizing the Protected Storage

Author: I just realized, this is getting super confused.

TF-M implements separation of its services, and calls these partitions.
Protected Storage is a service that we can enable. As it runs inside TF-M, we might call it protected storage partition.

Protected storage need a storage, which we configure here. It is called protected storage partition.

Now protected storage partition means two different thing:
* A service itself.
* Storage where data is stored by the service.

I wonder if we could drop the usage of term "partition" from all of the services that we enable from TF-M.

On the first boot, TF-M ensures that the keys are stored in the Key Management Unit (KMU) and switches the device to the **Secured** state.
The :ref:`tfm_psa_template` sample shows how to achieve this.

.. _ug_tfm_manual_VCOM_connection:

Logging
*******

TF-M employs two UART interfaces for logging: one for the secure part (MCUboot and TF-M), and one for the non-secure application.
By default, the logs arrive on different COM ports on the host PC.
See :ref:`ug_tfm_manual_VCOM_connection` for more details.

Alternatively, you can configure the TF-M to connect to the same UART as the application with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SECURE_UART0` Kconfig option.
Setting this Kconfig option makes TF-M logs visible on the application's VCOM, without manual connection.

The UART instance used by the application is ``0`` by default, and the TF-M UART instance is ``1``.
To change the TF-M UART instance to the same as that of the application's, use the  :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SECURE_UART0` Kconfig option.

.. note::

>    When the TF-M and application use the same UART, the TF-M disables logging after it has booted and it re-enables it again only to log a fatal error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When the TF-M and the user application use the same UART, the TF-M disables logging after it has booted and it re-enables it again only to log a fatal error.
```

      address: 0x8000
      size: 0x4000

Analyzing ``tfm_secure`` partition size
=======================================

You can analyze the size of the ``tfm_secure`` partition from the build output:

>   .. code-block:: console
> 
>      [71/75] Linking C executable bin/tfm_s.axf
>      Memory region   Used Size  Region Size  %age Used
>         FLASH:       31972 B       256 KB     12.20%
>         RAM:         4804 B        88 KB      5.33%

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: console

   [71/75] Linking C executable bin/tfm_s.axf
   Memory region   Used Size  Region Size  %age Used
      FLASH:       31972 B       256 KB     12.20%
      RAM:         4804 B        88 KB      5.33%
```

The example shows that the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM` Kconfig option for the ``tfm_secure`` partition is set to 256 kB and the TF-M binary uses 32 kB of the available space.

> Similarly the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` option for the ``tfm_secure`` partition  is set to 88 kB and the TF-M binary uses 5 kB of the available space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_SIZE_TFM_SRAM` option for the ``tfm_secure`` partition  is set to 88 kB and the TF-M binary uses 5 kB of the available space.
```

       For example, after building the :ref:`tfm_hello_world` sample for the ``nrf9151dk/nrf9151/ns`` board target, you can run the following commands from your application root directory to generate the RAM memory report for TF-M in the terminal:

       .. code-block:: console

          west build -d build/tfm_hello_world -t tfm_ram_report

For more information about the ``tfm_ram_report`` and ``tfm_rom_report`` targets, refer to the :ref:`tfm_build_system` documentation.

TF-M Services
*************

As explained in the :ref:`tfm_configurable_build`, TF-M is built from a set of services that are isolated from each other. Services can be enabled or disabled based on the application requirements.
Following sections describe the available TF-M services and their purpose.

Platform service
================

The platform service provides platform-specific services to other TF-M partitions and to a non-secure application.
To enable the platform service, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_PLATFORM` Kconfig option.

> For user application :ref:`placed in the Non-Secure Processing Environment <app_boards_spe_nspe_cpuapp_ns>`, you can set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_ALLOW_NON_SECURE_FAULT_HANDLING` Kconfig option, which enables more detailed error descriptions of faults from the application with the Zephyr fault handler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For user applications :ref:`placed in the Non-Secure Processing Environment <app_boards_spe_nspe_cpuapp_ns>`, you can set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_ALLOW_NON_SECURE_FAULT_HANDLING` Kconfig option, which enables more detailed error descriptions of faults from the application with the Zephyr fault handler.
```

Encrypted ITS
-------------

TF-M ITS encryption is a data protection mechanism in Internal Trusted Storage. It provides transparent encryption using a Master Key Encryption Key (MKEK) stored in hardware, with unique encryption keys derived for each file.

To enable TF-M ITS encryption, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_ITS_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option.

On Nordic Semiconductor devices, the hardware-accelerated AEAD scheme ChaChaPoly1305 is used with a 256-bit key.
This key is derived with a key derivation function (KDF) based on NIST SP 800-108 CMAC.
The input key of the KDF is the MKEK, a symmetric key stored in the Key Management Unit (KMU) of Nordic Semiconductor devices.
The MKEK is protected by the KMU peripheral and its key material cannot be read by the software.
It can only be used by reference.

The file ID is used as a derivation label for the KDF.
This means that each file ID uses a different AEAD key.
As long as each file has a unique file ID, the key used for encryption and authentication is unique.

To strengthen data integrity, the metadata of the ITS file (creation flags or size, or both) is used as authenticated data in the encryption process.

> The nonce for the AEAD operation is generated by concatenating a random 8-byte seed and a increasing 4-byte counter.

Author: Why `the`? The counter is not explained or introduced anywhere. It is just "a counter"

> The nonce for the AEAD operation is generated by concatenating a random 8-byte seed and a increasing 4-byte counter.

Reviewer 3: Wasn't sure whether you meant "an increasing 4-byte counter". Did you mean like this: "by concatenating a random 8-byte seed and (concatenating) an increasing an increasing 4-byte counter."

> The nonce for the AEAD operation is generated by concatenating a random 8-byte seed and a increasing 4-byte counter.

Author: yes.

> The nonce for the AEAD operation is generated by concatenating a random 8-byte seed and a increasing 4-byte counter.

Reviewer 3: Well then, it should be "**an** increasing 4-byte counter."

Depending on the available flash size, the ITS can use one or two flash pages (4 KB) for ensuring power failure safe operations.
In addition, ITS stores the bookkeeping information for the assets in the flash memory and the bookkeeping size scales with the configured number of assets.
This can leave a very small amount of space for the actual assets.

It is recommended to test the ITS with the intended assets to ensure that the assets fit in the available space.

.. _tfm_partition_crypto:

Crypto service
==============

The crypto service implements the PSA Crypto APIs (`PSA Certified Crypto API`_) and provides cryptographic services to other TF-M partitions and to the non-secure application.

To enable the crypto service, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_CRYPTO` Kconfig option.

You can configure the service directly using the ``CONFIG_TFM_CRYPTO_*`` Kconfig options found in the :file:`zephyr/modules/trusted-firmware-m/Kconfig.tfm.crypto_modules` file.
However, it is recommended to use the ``CONFIG_PSA_WANT_*`` Kconfig options to enable the required algorithms and key types.

> These will enable the required ``CONFIG_TFM_CRYPTO_*`` Kconfig options.

Reviewer 2: Just curious, is there a reason these don't have the :kconfig:option: markup too?

Reviewer 2: Never mind, Pekka told me.

.. code-block:: console

    app:
      address: 0x40000
      end_address: 0xf8000
      region: flash_primary
      size: 0xb8000
    tfm_nonsecure:
      address: 0x40000
      end_address: 0xf8000
      orig_span: &id004
      - app
      region: flash_primary
      size: 0xb8000
      span: *id004
    tfm_its:
      address: 0xf8000
      end_address: 0xfa000
      inside:
      - tfm_storage
      placement:
        before:
        - tfm_otp_nv_counters
      region: flash_primary
      size: 0x2000
    tfm_otp_nv_counters:
      address: 0xfa000
      end_address: 0xfc000
      inside:
      - tfm_storage
      placement:
        before:
        - tfm_ps
      region: flash_primary
      size: 0x2000
    tfm_storage:
      address: 0xf8000
      end_address: 0x100000
      orig_span: &id006
      - tfm_ps
      - tfm_its
      - tfm_otp_nv_counters
      region: flash_primary
      size: 0x8000
      span: *id006

The ``tfm_storage`` partition is still aligned with the flash region size and the ``tfm_its``, ``tfm_ps`` and ``tfm_otp_nv_counters`` partitions are placed inside it.
The available space for the non-secure application has increased by 0x10000 bytes.

.. note::

>    With devices that are intended for production and meant to be updated in the field, you should always use static partitions to ensure that the partitions are not moved around in the flash memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For devices that are intended for production and meant to be updated in the field, you should always use static partitions to ensure that the partitions are not moved around in the flash memory.
```

Initial Attestation service
===========================

The Initial Attestation service implements the PSA Initial Attestation APIs (`PSA Certified Attestation API 1.0`_).

> It allows the device to prove its identity to a remote entity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The service allows the device to prove its identity to a remote entity.
```

> To enable Initial Attestation service, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INITIAL_ATTESTATION` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable the Initial Attestation service, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_INITIAL_ATTESTATION` Kconfig option.
```

On the first boot, TF-M ensures that the keys are stored in the Key Management Unit (KMU) and switches the device to the **Secured** state.
The :ref:`tfm_psa_template` sample shows how to achieve this.

.. _ug_tfm_manual_VCOM_connection:

Logging
*******

TF-M employs two UART interfaces for logging: one for the :ref:`Secure Processing Environment<app_boards_spe_nspe>` (including MCUboot and TF-M), and one for the :ref:`Non-Secure Processing Environment<app_boards_spe_nspe>` (including user application).
By default, the logs arrive on different COM ports on the host PC.
See :ref:`ug_tfm_manual_VCOM_connection` for more details.

Alternatively, you can configure the TF-M to connect to the same UART as the application with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SECURE_UART0` Kconfig option.
Setting this Kconfig option makes TF-M logs visible on the application's VCOM, without manual connection.

The UART instance used by the application is ``0`` by default, and the TF-M UART instance is ``1``.
To change the TF-M UART instance to the same as that of the application's, use the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TFM_SECURE_UART0` Kconfig option.

.. note::

>    When the TF-M and the user application use the same UART, the TF-M disables logging after it has booted and it re-enables it again only to log a fatal error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   When the TF-M and the user application use the same UART, the TF-M disables logging after it has booted and re-enables it again only to log a fatal error.
```
